https://www.youtube.com/user/madhurbhatia89 

command: CREATE DATABASE
command: USE
command: DROP DATABASE
command: CREATE TABLE
command: DESC

Meaning: A table is a database object that is composed of rows and columns and contains related data.
Meaning: A field is a column in a table that is supposed to provide specific information about all the records in the table.
Meaning: A record is a row in a table, or a horizontal entity of a table.
Meaning: A column is a vertical entity in a table that contains information associated with a specific field.
Meaning: null value is a no vlaue; it is not a space or zero, it is nothing. 
Meaning: Data-type is a property that specifies the type of data you can put in your table.

data-type: Numeric Field - Bigint (really big values)
data-type: Numeric field - Int (big values)
data-type: Numeric field - Smallint (-32,768 to 32,767)
data-type: Numeric field - Tinyint (0 to 255)
data-type: Numeric field - Decimal (m,d)
data-type: Numeric field - Numeric (Same as Decimal)
data-type: Numeric field - Float (m,d) --> for Float data-type, display length (m0 and number of decimals (d) are optional
data-type: Date and Time field - Datetime (YYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
data-type: Date and Time field - Date (YYYY-MM-DD)
data-type: Date and Time field - Time (HH:MM:SS)
data-type: Date and Time field - Year (YYYY)
data-type: Character field - Char(m)
data-type: Character field - Varchar(m)
data-type: Character field - Text (to store large amount of text)
data-type: Image field - Blob (Binary Large Object)

constraint: Not Null - If you want to make sure that a field gets some value for every rowin the table, apply the not null constriant to it.
constraint: Default - If while populating a table you miss giving a column some value, the default value will be used.
constraint: Unique - Makes sure that all values entered for the field on which the constraint is applied are different.
constraint: Primary Key - Not Null + Unique; Some value would have to be provided in each row and all the values entered must be different.
constraint: Foreign Key
constraint: Check Constraint

step: Name the table
step: Define the columns
step: Mention data types of columns
step: constraints

Syntax: 
CREATE TABLE statement
CREATE TABLE table_name(
col 1 datatype,
col 2 datatype,
col 3 datatype
.
.
.
col n datatype,
PRIMARY KEY(column));

Syntax:
CREATE TABLE new_table_name AS
SELECT [col 1, col 2, col 3, ..., col n)]
FROM exisiting_table_name
[WHERE];

Syntax:
INSERT INTO table_name (col 1, col 2, ..., col n)
VALUES (val 1, val 2, ..., val n)

Syntax:
INSERT INTO table_name
VALUES (val 1, val 2, ..., val n)

